URL: https://www.earthscope.org/news/seedlink-service-is-moving-as-part-of-our-cloud-transition/
HTTP: 200

SeedLink service is moving as part of our cloud transition | EarthScope Consortium Skip to content NSF NGF Home Log In Search About Overview About EarthScope Staff What is geophysics? Community Science Conferences Data Overview Seismic Geodetic Cloud Data Systems Request Project Support Software Instrumentation Overview Permanent Networks Project Support Common Sensor Platform Station Builder Education Overview Student Internships Skill Building & Learning Education Resources Calendar News Overview News & Features Social Media Mailing Lists Geophysical Events About Overview About EarthScope NSF National Geophysical Facility Membership Governance Facility Advisory Committees Staff Contact us for help What is geophysics? Community Science Conferences Data Overview Seismic Observational Data Types Derived Data Products Data Quality Assurance Data Tool Matrix Geodetic GNSS Realtime Data GNSS Seafloor Geodesy SAR LIDAR & SfM Borehole Strain Cloud Data Systems GeoLab Notebook Hub Request Project Support Software Geodetic Seismic Notebooks Instrumentation Overview Permanent Networks NOTA GSN NASA GGN Polar (geodesy) Polar (seismology) Project Support Request Project Support Portable Seismic Instrumentation Active Seismic Source Support GNSS Instrumentation Borehole Instruments Geodetic Imaging Polar (geodesy) Polar (seismology) Common Sensor Platform Station Builder Education Overview Student Internships Geo-Launchpad RESESS Student Career Program Skill Building & Learning Courses Science Communication GeoCareers Mentoring Education Resources Geodesy resources Seismology resources Geophysics Field Education Calendar News Overview News & Features Social Media Mailing Lists Geophysical Events Search About Overview About EarthScope NSF National Geophysical Facility Membership Governance Facility Advisory Committees Staff Contact us for help What is geophysics? Community Science Conferences Data Overview Seismic Observational Data Types Derived Data Products Data Quality Assurance Data Tool Matrix Geodetic GNSS Realtime Data GNSS Seafloor Geodesy SAR LIDAR & SfM Borehole Strain Cloud Data Systems GeoLab Notebook Hub Request Project Support Software Geodetic Seismic Notebooks Instrumentation Overview Permanent Networks NOTA GSN NASA GGN Polar (geodesy) Polar (seismology) Project Support Request Project Support Portable Seismic Instrumentation Active Seismic Source Support GNSS Instrumentation Borehole Instruments Geodetic Imaging Polar (geodesy) Polar (seismology) Common Sensor Platform Station Builder Education Overview Student Internships Geo-Launchpad RESESS Student Career Program Skill Building & Learning Courses Science Communication GeoCareers Mentoring Education Resources Geodesy resources Seismology resources Geophysics Field Education Calendar News Overview News & Features Social Media Mailing Lists Geophysical Events NSF NGF Home Log In Search SeedLink service is moving as part of our cloud transition Home / News / News & Features SeedLink service is moving as part of our cloud transition 14 May 2026 Tags: data services If you wish to receive announcements about changes in data management and services you can subscribe to the Data Announcements mailing list . Update June 8 2026 The DNS entry for the host rtserve.iris.washington.edu has been switched to resolve to our new cloud-based service. Most connections transitioned automatically. For clients connecting via the IP address to the old service, we strongly recommend using the hostname rtserve.earthscope.org instead of an bare IP address. The remaining connections will be terminated next week. The EarthScope-operated NSF National Geophysical Facility’s SeedLink streaming service, providing access to real-time streams from seismological networks, is moving from rtserve.iris.washington.edu to rtserve.earthscope.org as part of our cloud transition. What: Transition of SeedLink service to a new address When : June 8, 2026 Both services are now running in parallel for a transition period of approximately one month. We encourage all users to switch to rtserve.earthscope.org at their earliest convenience. On June 8, 2026 , the DNS for rtserve.iris.washington.edu will be redirected to the new service, at which point any remaining client connections will be dropped and forced to reconnect to the new service. We’ve worked to make this transition as smooth as possible, but if you encounter issues please contact help@earthscope.org. Action required: switch your client and discard saved connection state When you reconfigure your SeedLink client to connect to rtserve.earthscope.org , discard any saved state file used to resume connections . The new service is an independent implementation and does not share state with the legacy server. Reusing legacy state can cause re-downloading large amounts of duplicate data already received. The recommended procedure: Stop your client. Update the server address to rtserve.earthscope.org. Delete or rename the existing SeedLink statefile. Restart your client; it will begin acquiring data from the new service from the current time. It is possible that this transition procedure will result in data gaps in some streams, with more gaps expected the longer the switch takes. If you wish to fill these data gaps, miniSEED can be requested from our fdsnws-dataselect service: https://service.earthscope.org/fdsnws/dataselect/1/ Forced cutover On the cutover date, the DNS record for rtserve.iris.washington.edu will be updated to resolve to rtserve.earthscope.org . Existing connections to the old address will be dropped at that time, and clients will reconnect to the new service. Because server state cannot be preserved across this cutover, users who have not already migrated should expect a small gap or some data overlap when their client reconnects. Controlling this state transition is the primary reason we recommend migrating ahead of the forced cutover. We will update this news item and send a follow-up email to the data-announcements list when the cutover has occurred. What’s new in the service The new service brings several improvements: SeedLink v4 support. The new server supports the SeedLink v4 protocol , which provides a deeper buffer for resuming connections after disruptions and lays the groundwork for future miniSEED v3 streaming. Existing SeedLink (v3) clients remain fully supported. TLS on port 18500. Encrypted SeedLink connections are now supported on port 18500, per the SeedLink v4 specification. The standard unencrypted SeedLink port (18000) continues to be available. FDSN Source Identifiers in stream IDs. The new server uses FDSN Source Identifiers internally for stream identification. This change is transparent for normal SeedLink operation — clients continue to subscribe using station and stream IDs –— but some server status messages and INFO responses will now display stream identifiers in the FDSN Source ID form. More details for client developers and power users CORS is enabled on the new service. If you are developing a browser-based client and run into cross-origin issues, please let us know. The new service runs on AWS infrastructure. If you have firewall rules that whitelist the legacy IP addresses, those rules will need to be updated; we recommend whitelisting by hostname where possible as a static IP is not guaranteed. Please reach out to help@earthscope.org if you have any questions or run into trouble with this new service. Careers Internships Contact Us How to Cite Code of Conduct Privacy Policy Terms of Service EarthScope Consortium operates the NSF National Geophysical Facility (NSF NGF). Any opinions, findings and conclusions, or recommendations expressed in this material do not necessarily reflect the views of the U.S. National Science Foundation.